# COMPSYS 704 Group 7 Project Plan #
## Introduction ## 
The EvilCorp Personal Tracker project requires the relative position of a small tracking device to be calculated from sensor data. This tracking device is equipped with a wireless transmitter/receiver, and multiple inertial measurement unit (IMU) sensors. The environment for this tracking project is a room that has twenty wireless beacons at known positions. From these provided specifications, there are two main options for conducting localisation of the tracking device.

## Bluetooth ##
The first option is to use signal strength values of the wireless beacons which have been placed throughout the environment. The beacons use the Bluetooth iBeacon protocol for data communication. This method will involve reading the beacon messages to determine the IDs of the beacons, and reading the signal strength to determine how far away each of those beacons are from the tracking device. From these data values and a map of the coordinates of each beacon, the location of the tracking device can be calculated using triangulation.

## Inertial Sensors ##
The second option is to use the IMU sensors to calculate the position of the tracking device. This method will involve utilising the provided gyroscope, magnetometer, and accelerometer sensors to determine how far the tracking device has travelled and in what direction, at each point in time. From these data values and with a known origin position, the location of the tracking device can be determined.

## Discussion ## 
We have chosen to use the IMU sensors for localisation of the tracking device. Our reasoning behind this decision is that the IMU sensors will offer greater accuracy and reliability than the Bluetooth iBeacons for tracking a person in an industry environment. The iBeacon wireless communication can be affected by other entities in the environment such as furniture or moving persons. This is because radio waves can reflect off physical objects, causing multipath and interference effects than can make iBeacons appears to be closer or farther than where they actually are. The IMU sensors do not have the drawback, as they do not interact with the external environment. This means that localisation of the tracking device via IMU sensors should be more accurate and more reliable than via Bluetooth beacons. Additionally, wireless communication such as Bluetooth uses more power than the IMU sensors. This means that by using the IMU sensors, the operational up-time of the tracking device is greater.

## Plan ##
The first step which we have developed is the interim interview stage. For this stage we have implemented a mobile tracking device and a base station, both using the provided Thundersense 2 boards. The mobile tracking device is able to read iBeacon IDs and signal strengths (RSSIs), and read data values from the IMU sensors. This information is then wirelessly transmitted to the base station and printed to a serial console (PuTTY). The next step will be to focus on implementing the calculatation the location of the mobile tracking device from the IMU data values, and then transmitting that information to the base station. The final step of the project will be to implement a desktop application to display this information with a user-friendly GUI.
